<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="WhyStainlessSteeloverNonStick">
  <title>Why Stainless Steel over Non-Stick?</title>
  <conbody>
    <p>Stainless steel pans have many benefits for your cookware and cooking habits, but they can be hard to see if you've become accustomed to non-stick and other types of Teflon coated pans. Below we'll illustrate the benefts of stainless steel pans.</p>

    <section>
      <title>Durability</title>
      <p>Stainless steel pans are highly durable and can last decades when cared for properly, making them a very economical purchase. Non-stick pans tend to wear down over time due to the coating, which degrades or flakes off. Stainless steel pans do not have any surface that can flake off or degrade.</p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Heat Retention and Distribution</title>
      <p>Stainless steel pans are known for their excellent heat retention and even heat distribution. This allows for consistent cooking results and prevents hot spots that can cause food to cook unevenly. While non-stick pans may offer convenience, they do not conduct heat as evenly as stainless steel.</p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Versatility</title>
      <p>One of the major benefits of stainless steel pans is their versatility. They can be used at high temperatures, making them ideal for searing, browning, and deglazing. Additionally, stainless steel pans can go from the stovetop to the oven, offering greater flexibility in cooking techniques. Non-stick pans, by contrast, are often limited by temperature restrictions and are not suitable for high-heat cooking methods.</p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Health and Safety</title>
      <p>Many non-stick coatings contain chemicals such as PTFE (Teflon) that can release harmful fumes when overheated. Since non-stick pans do not conduct heat as evenly as stainless steel, high heat is often used and lead to increased chances of unintentionally overheating the pan. Stainless steel pans, on the other hand, are free from chemical coatings, making them a safer option for cooking at high temperatures.</p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Care and Maintenance</title>
      <p>While stainless steel pans require a bit more care than non-stick pans, they are relatively easy to maintain. Proper seasoning can help create a semi-non-stick surface, and regular cleaning with a non-abrasive sponge keeps them in good condition. Over time, these pans develop a natural patina that improves cooking performance.</p>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
